# Conversation as User Interface

If you want to provide great conversational user experiences but worried about the cost associated with building and operating chatbot, then you are not alone. Framely is motivated with the same question: chatbot is just app with conversational user interface, why building bot should cost more than building app, particularly when they expose the same set of services.

The higher cost associated with building conversational user interface is the main reason for these magical conversational experience in the movies is still hard to find. The reason for the higher cost? We did not formulate as problem we have good tools for. With declarative framework and component library like Vue and Antd, it is easy for domain expert with reasonable amount programming training to build great apps. Without good abstraction and these high level framework, building CUI can be a lot more demanding, you need Ph.Ds with NLU background, and as well as business experts that stay on top of the ever-changing business conditions.

## Stick to What Works
To make building bot as cost-effective as building app, we follow the same principles such as [Separation of concerns](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Separation_of_concerns), [model-view-controller](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller) and the same workflow such as [version control using git](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git) for collaboration. If something works, why change it? After all CUI and GUI are just different user interface to the same services.

### Separation of Concerns
The division of labor, or separation of concerns is essential for increasing productivity and reducing the cost of building things. Along the line of model-view-controller for building graphical user interface, we decompose chatbot into 3 layers: service, interaction and language perception (both understanding and text generation). In most cases, services already exist, we just need to build interaction for it, so that we can trigger service based on what user wants. It should be clear that interaction logic is largely decided underlying service but constrained by conversation principles, independent of which language is used. By decoupling CUI from service, and the interaction from language, we can save cost by having different people working different aspects, at the same time make supporting multiple language very easy.

### Declarative Framework
All software development is about translating product/feature requirement in owner's head into executable code on computer, imperatively and declaratively. Imperative programming emphasizes direct instruction on how the program executes functions. So developers need to understand both business logic and how things are done at low level as they need to describe step-by-step how the desired functionality should be implemented. On the other end of the spectrum, declarative programming places much of its focus on the overall goal and intended outcome of a program's operations. Developers don't necessarily have to worry about technical details of how things are done.

Of course, in the end, computer still need to know how to do thing. A declarative framework provides a set of primitives each with clearly defined semantics so that builder can use to describe the desired behavior, while leave the implementation of these primitives to the domain experts. A well-designed declarative framework is essential for adopting the separation of concerns principle, so builder can now focus on describing what user experience they want to deliver, without the need to go through potentially steep learning curve, like get a Ph.D in ML/NLU to learn how things should be done. 

### Component Library
Building thing from scratch is slow and expensive. By packaging the solution for well-defined use cases, such as recommending a list of items and asking user which one they like, into a reusable (meaning composable and reconfigurable) module or component, we can then integrate them into bigger and bigger solutions to deliver the desired conversational user experience. This way of building chatbot can save both time and cost, and user can enjoy higher quality experience because of the components can be built and maintained by specialized professionals.

### Dialog Understanding without Ph.D.
Human language are mess, and understanding it is hard as the different text can mean the same thing and the same text can mean different thing in different context. This is one of the key complications of building conversational user interface. The popular approach rely on standard ML/NLU tasks like text classification and named entity recognition. While these standard tasks are well studied, applying them to new business use case requires effective customization, which typically call for serious thus costly expertise in ML/NLU. Framely focus on schema grounded conversational user interface, and use a set of ML/NLU models that every easy for regular dev team to effectively customize for any use cases with just utterance exemplars and template, entirely drop the need for having Ph.D on your team.

## What We are Not?
Under the hood, we take advantage of the state of the art deep learning based natural language models that are production friendly. But conversational AI is just a means to develop conversational applications, not the goal. There are many other directions that has been tried in the industry and academia, while we are learning as much as possible from this large body of prior work, these are some trendy things we decide against. So if you want to try these approaches, look else where.

### End to End
Be able to create a well-functioned chatbot by just looking at past conversations when customers are served well is such an appealing idea that there is so much effort around this, from both academia and industry, but it is not a good idea from the production point of view. It simply does not offer direct control needed for business to react ever-changing business conditions.

### Flow Based Approach
Business logic are typically described as processes. Under graphical user interface, builder have full control what user can do at each step of interaction, so flow based definition works well. For conversational interaction, builder does not have control, user can say anything they like at any point, and in any order. Without some sort of factorization, the possible conversational paths needed modeling by flow based approach will grow exponentially as complexity grows. Thus flow based approach to define conversational interaction become prohibitively costly. It is clear that humans do not follow fixed script during conversation, so in theory it is possible for builder to specify how bot should behave under necessary and sufficient conditions, and chatbot can try to figure out what to do no matter how conversation reached here.   

### Low Level Library
Conversational experience can also be built directly at the code level. While this provides the most flexibility, building chatbot at this level is hard to escape from the implementation details like intent classification and slot filling. This will force builder to switch back and forth between business logic and language understanding, which will slow the building process down, and cost more for business to get what they want.

